Amazon Kinesis source & sink (#2656)
hazelcast/hazelcast-jet: site/docs/design-docs/018-kinesis-connectors.md

number of shards needed when you create a data stream. For example, you
can create a data stream with two shards. This data stream has a
throughput of 2MB/sec data input and 4MB/sec data output and allows up
to 2000 record publications per second. You can monitor shard-level
metrics in Kinesis and add or remove shards from your data stream
dynamically as your data throughput changes by resharding the data
stream.

A **record** is the unit of data stored in Kinesis. A record is composed
of a sequence number, partition key, and data blob. Data blob is the
data of interest your data producer adds to a data stream. The maximum
size of a data blob (the data payload before Base64-encoding) is 1
megabyte (MB).

A **partition key** is used to segregate and route records to different
shards of a data stream. A partition key is specified by your data
producer while adding data to KDS. For example, assuming you have a data
stream with two shards (shard 1 and shard 2). You can configure your
data producer to use two partition keys (key A and key B) so that all
records with key A are added to shard 1, and all records with key B are

> added to shard 2.

Author: It's copy pasted from the Kinesis documentation, but I see what you mean. Will rewrite it.

A **sequence number** is a unique identifier for each record. Sequence
numbers are assigned by KDS when a data producer publishes data into it.

> Sequence numbers for the same partition key generally increase over

Author: I don't know. The connectors ignore it anyway.

> Sequence numbers for the same partition key generally increase over

Author: The documentation doesn't say it clearly, but when you look through higher level API implementation for Kinesis (done by Amazon), these sequence numbers are being converted to `BigInteger`s and compared. Also, the API offers a way to request shard data from a sequence number onward (which I do use to start playback from offsets saved in shards). I have run tons of tests, I've never seen a reversal in sequence number or any issue caused by something like that. I can't prove it, but all signs point to sequence numbers being monotonous... I have not found the actual code of the Kinesis backend...

> Sequence numbers for the same partition key generally increase over

Reviewer: Let's just have a clear statement about our knowledge of it in the TDD. The current phrasing sounds like the sequence is nothing to be relied upon.

with KDS:

* **Kinesis Client Library (KCL)** and **Kinesis Producer Library
  (KPL)** are high-level libraries that are easy to use because they
  abstract away many concerns. They manage their threading policy, hide
  away the REST-based nature of Kinesis behind asynchronous constructs,
  balance load, handle failures, and react to resharding. However, all
  this convenience makes them unsuitable for building Jet connectors,
  where we need the most control possible to make choices that are
  suitable to Jet's architecture.
* **Amazon Kinesis Data Streams API** via **AWS SDK for Java** is the
  lower-level library that allows sufficient control when interacting
  with Kinesis. It consists of a simple set of [REST-based
  operations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kinesis/latest/APIReference/API_Operations.html).
  Every other concern mentioned above, when discussing the high-level
  libraries, has to be handled explicitly. This is the library used in
  the Jet source and sink implementations.

## Quotas

Amazon Kinesis Data Streams enforces quite a few quotas and limits,
which our sources and sinks need to comply with:

> * A single shard can ingest up to 1 MB of data per second (including

Author: Yes, looks like it's fine grained, like every second or so, but again, not something described in the docs, so we can't rely on it.

### Resharding

Kinesis supports resharding, which lets you adjust the number of shards
in your stream to adapt to changes in data flow rate through the stream.
(Amazon charges on a per-shard basis, that's why it's desirable to have
the smallest amount of shards possible.)

There are two types of resharding operations: shard **split** and shard
**merge**. In a shard split, you divide a single shard into two adjacent
shards. In a shard merge, you combine two adjacent shards into a single
shard. By "adjacent", we mean that one's hash range starts where the
other one's ends.

Splitting increases the number of shards in your stream and therefore
increases the data capacity (and cost) of the stream. Similarly, merging
reduces the number of shards in your stream and therefore decreases the
data capacity (and cost).

Resharding is always pairwise in the sense that you cannot split into
more than two shards in a single operation, and you cannot merge more
than two shards in a single operation. The shard or pair of shards that
the resharding operation acts on are called parent shards. The shard or
pair of shards that result from the resharding operation are called
child shards.

> When child shards, resulting from a split or merge, activate, their

Author: I don't know. Testing has revealed that if I make sure to read all data from the parents, until reading returns EOF and then switching to the children and reading then I will not lose data, but what exactly happens, if the switch is clean and well defined, I don't know. The documentation doesn't say, so even if I dig up the details from the code, I can't rely on it, because it might change. I wouldn't be surprised if it wouldn't be well defined, because I've just witnessed for example a series of "list shard" operations (on the real back-end) which at some point showed me child shards and then went back to an obsolete state with only the parent shards and then recent again.... So my current impression of Kinesis is that if you know what's good for you, then you don't trigger a resharding while data is flowing through....

the child shards.

The Kinesis Jet source would need to make sure that it finishes reading
from parents before reading from their children. However, this is not
possible since the children might end up being owned by an entirely
different instance of the source than their parents (for example, in a
split), possibly located in an entirely different Jet cluster member.

Moreover, it's not enough to finish reading from the parent before
reading from the children. Even if that were achieved, data from parents
might overtake data from children further down the Jet pipeline, in its
various parallel components. A Kinesis source would need to make sure
that it has read all data from the parents and that data has fully
passed through the Jet pipeline before starting to read from the
children. Only then could it provide the same ordering as KDS while
resharding.

This is currently not possible in Jet. Hopefully, future versions will
address the problem. Users of the Kinesis source need to be aware that
some data reordering might occur on resharding.

### Fault Tolerance

The Kinesis Jet source supports pipelines with both at-least-once and

> exactly-once processing guarantees. It achieves this by saving KDS

Author: As stated above, no guarantee but very likely to be the case.

offsets into its snapshots and starting data read from saved offsets
when restarted.

The offsets are saved on a per-shard basis, and on restart, each source
instance receives all saved offsets for all shards, so it can function
properly regardless of how shards are assigned to sources after the

> restart.

Author: Kinesis shard names are based on a monotonically increasing counter with a range much larger than a stream will ever have shards in practice. Old shard names are not reused. So after restart the shards can't be that different. There will be some unchanged, some new and some gone. We have a mechanism in place for dealing with expired/obsolete ones (any shard with track in snapshots will be evicted if it doesn't show up in current shard detection for a while).

> The number of milliseconds the GetRecords response is from the
> stream's tip, indicating how far behind the current time the consumer
> is. A value of zero indicates that record processing caught up, and
> there are no new records to process at this moment.

This value can be useful for monitoring so the sources can publish it
as a per processor instance metric.

### Code Example

A typical example of setting up a Kinesis source in Jet would look like
this:

```java
KinesisSources.kinesis("myStream")
  .withRegion("us-east-1")
  .withEndpoint("http://localhost:12345")
  .withCredentials("accesskey", "secretkey")
  .withRetryStrategy(RetryStrategies.indefinitely(250))
  .build();
```

The only mandatory property is the Kinesis `stream name`. The others are
optional and can be specified via a fluent builder.

If `region` is not specified, then _us-east-1_ will be used by default.

If `endpoint` is not specified, then the region's default endpoint will
be used.

If `credentials` aren't specified, then the [Default Credential Provider
Chain](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/v1/developer-guide/credentials.html#credentials-default)
will be followed.

> If `retry strategy` is not specified, then a default of our definition

Author: Yeah, no good arguments either way. Atm I also lean towards indefinitely. Will change it.

will be used (maximum 10 retries, with exponential backoff limited to
a maximum of 3 seconds). A source's retry strategy applies to failures
of reading records from or listing shards of a stream.

The actual source created will be of type
`StreamSource<Map.Entry<String, byte[]>>`, so basically a stream of
partition key - record data blob pairs.

## Sink

The Kinesis sink is a _distributed_, and _fault-tolerant_ data sink for
Jet. It supports both _streaming_ and _batching_ pipelines. The
fault-tolerance guarantee it can offer is only _at-least-once_ since
Kinesis does not offer transaction support.

### Distribution

Being a distributed sink, it has multiple instances running in each Jet
cluster member. When used in a pipeline, this sink forces its incoming
edges to be _distributed_ and _partitioned_. The partition keys used by
the edges are the same as the Kinesis [partition keys](#partition-key).
This ensures that all data with the same partition key will end up in
the same global sink instance and the same shard.

### Flow Control

Writing data into a Kinesis Data Stream is governed by multiple
limitations:

* no more than 500 records can be written in one batch

> * each record must contain no more than 1M of data

Author: MiB, will fix

one.

### Write Order

Under normal circumstances, the Kinesis sink preserves the order of
items belonging to the same partition key. However, when the [flow
control](#flow-control) mechanism kicks in, the ordering might be lost
on occasion.

This unfortunate fact originates in the way how KDS handles shard
ingestion rate violations. When KDS receives a batch to be ingested, it
processes each item in it one-by-one, and if some fail, it doesn't stop
processing the batch. The result is that some items from a batch get
rejected, some get ingested, but in a random manner. The sink does
resend the un-ingested item, they won't get lost, but there is nothing
it can do to preserve the initial ordering. This is very unfortunate
since all that would be needed for avoiding this problem would be for
Kinesis to reject all remaining items from the batch once one of them
trips the ingestion rate limit. The designers probably made the choice
they did to save on data traffic.

Nothing that we can do about it at this point needs to be documented,
and users of the sink need to be aware.

### Fault Tolerance

Since there is no transaction support in Kinesis the sink can't support

> _exactly-once_ processing. It can, however, support _at-least-once_

Author: Since it's a sink, from its point of view isn't delivery and processing the same thing?

> _exactly-once_ processing. It can, however, support _at-least-once_

Reviewer: I think "processing" should apply to the whole pipeline. The main problem with at-least-once processing in Jet is that the aggregation results are just wrong. If the only bad outcome is getting the exact same, correct data twice in the output (properly timestamped, so pertaining to the same window), it would still count as "exactly-once processing".

---

> title: 018 - Kinesis Connectors
> description: Sources and sinks for Amazon Kinesis Data Streams

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: 018 - Kinesis Connector
description: Source and Sink for Amazon Kinesis Data Streams
```

  operation can write at most 500 records into the stream. Each record
  in the request can be as large as 1MiB, up to a limit of 5MiB for the
  entire request, including partition keys. Each shard can support
  writes up to 1,000 records per second, up to a maximum data write
  total of 1 MiB per second.
* The
  [DescribeStreamSummary](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kinesis/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeStreamSummary.html)
  operation has a limit of 20 transactions per second per account. (For
  details, see the [adaptive throughput](#adaptive-throughput) section.)

## Source

The Kinesis source is a _streaming_, _distributed_, and _fault-tolerant_
data source for Jet. It supports both the _at-least-once_ and
_exactly-once_ [processing
guarantees](../architecture/fault-tolerance.md#processing-guarantee-is-a-shared-concern).

### Distribution

Being a distributed source, it has multiple instances running in each
Jet cluster member. Each instance is responsible for reading from zero,
one or more KDS [shards](#shard). The assignment of shards to individual
source instances is based on partitioning the space of Kinesis [record

> keys](#partition-key).

Reviewer 2: Asssignment of processors isn't based on "record keys". It seems as if one shard could be read by multiple processors based on the record key.
